[Term Entry] Pandas DataFrame: .shape() (#1390)
Codecademy/docs: content/pandas/concepts/dataframe/terms/shape/shape.md

Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - Computer Science
  - Data Science
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - Pandas
  - Syntax
  - Data Structures
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

The **`.shape`** property of the [`DataFrame`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/pandas/dataframe) returns the tuple of array information that provides the number of rows and columns respectively. 

## Syntax

```pseudo
dataframevalue.shape
```

> Returns the number of rows and column of DataFrame.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Returns the number of rows and column of DataFrame.
```

Reviewer: Insert a line break after code block.

## Example

> The following example initiates a DataFrame and uses `.shape` to return the number of rows and columns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example initiates a DataFrame and uses `.shape` to return the number of rows and columns:

```

> The following example initiates a DataFrame and uses `.shape` to return the number of rows and columns:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example initiates a DataFrame and uses `.shape` to return the number of rows and columns:

```

Reviewer: Insert a line break before code block.

---

> Title: '.shape' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: '.shape'
```

> Description: 'Returns the number of rows and columns of given DataFrame in tuple form.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the number of rows and columns of given DataFrame in tuple form.'
```

> Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subjects:
```

>   - Computer Science
>   - Data Science
> Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
>   - Pandas
>   - Syntax
>   - Data Structures
> CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Pandas'
  - 'Syntax'
  - 'Data Structures'
CatalogContent:
```

  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

> The **`.shape`** property of the [`DataFrame`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/pandas/dataframe) returns the tuple of array information that provides the number of rows and columns respectively. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.shape`** property returns a tuple of information about the dimensions (rows and columns) of a DataFrame object. 
```

Reviewer 2: Since this entry is already a term under the DataFrame entry, the link isn't necessary.

## Syntax

```pseudo

> dataframevalue.shape

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dataFrameValue.shape
```

```

> Returns the number of rows and columns of DataFrame.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `dataFrameValue` must be a valid DataFrame object. If the `dataFrameValue` has a different length for in one or more columns, a `ValueError` will be thrown.
```

## Example

The following example initiates a DataFrame and uses `.shape` to return the number of rows and columns:

```py
import pandas as pd

> d = {'col1' : [1,2,3], 'col2' : [4,5,6]}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
d = {"col1" : [1, 2, 3], "col2" : [4, 5, 6]}
```

df = pd.DataFrame(data = d)

> df.shape

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
print(df.shape)
```

```

This will print the following:

```shell
(3, 2)
```

The result can be interpreted that DataFrame has 3 rows and 2 columns.

> The following example results the `ValueError` of `.shape` if a DataFrame has a different of length in one or more column(s):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Codebyte Example

The following example throws a `ValueError` because the DataFrame has columns of differing length:
```

Reviewer 2: Python code can be run in a Codebyte example. This includes pandas in some cases 😄

> ```py

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```codebyte/python
```

import pandas as pd

> d = {'col1' : [1,2,3], 'col2' : [4,6]}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
d = {"col1" : [1, 2, 3], "col2" : [4, 6]}
```

df = pd.DataFrame(data = d)

> df.shape

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
print(df.shape)
```

```

> 
> This will print the following:
> 
> ```shell
> ValueError: All arrays must be of the same length
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Since this can be turned into a runnable Codebyte example, there's no need for a separate \```shell snippet here.
